Gill is a recluse. He is grumpy and stubborn, and overall an asshole to every new person he meets. Its probably because his dad died at a young age. He raised him super religiously. Beat him too, the usual. Gill’s dad was Mucus’ leading ArchBishop. He lead the colony. Died of a kelp overdose. He had his own demons. Anyway, Gill had big shoes to fill. But he also had classical training in the Way of Blibdoolpoolp, so at the age of 13 Gill Rronkum became the youngest ArchPriest in the history of Mucus. Everybody hated him. In addition to the fact that he was lowkey a brat in his own right, the other Archpriests also despise the apparent nepotism that granted him the position. And while nepotism is obviously involved, one would be highly mistaken to think that Gill was not qualified for the position. That also drew hatred. They hated that Gill was better. So, after his mother passed, Gill found it best to continue his position as Arch Priest, but seclude himself on the outskirts of Mucus. Ten years have passed, Gill now inversely hates everyone else. He is bitter. One day, a young girl appears at his door step. Her name is Cove. Her parents are dead, she has no friends, she is alone. Gill is touched by this and takes her under his wing. He trains her for two years to be the best fuckin Arch Priest ever. However, under his training, Cove is not really allowed to have any fun. She lives with him, eats the same meal 2 times a day, and trains. Every single day. She yearns to go to the surface, explore Delta. And one day she sneaks out and goes. Cove leaves for the surface and is never seen again. Gill is devastated. (Gill does not know this but the cult took her). Weeks later, he stumbles upon her dead body. There are obvious signs of struggle, somebody did this to her. Gill enters complete and utter isolation. He learns the ways of the Grave Cleric, vowing to never let anybody die ever again. Gill eventually finds a new apprentice in Bream, age 13, who he protects with his life. He makes bream follow his rules and is incredibly over protective of her which annoys Bream. Gill knows it annoys her but he doesn't care, he wants to keep her safe. He will never let what happened to Cove happen again.