**The Great Fusion** is the defining event of the earliest known [[Timeline of Atlaax|age]] of the humanoid races on [[Atlaaxian System|Atlaax,]] and the first recorded [[Calamity|Calamity.]] The Great Fusion is not fully understood, but the dominant theory states that a magical anomaly caused various planets, named  [[Primeworld|primeworlds,]] to split apart and remerge into a single planet.

The primeworlds were each diced into clean chunks, with only a few chunks being consolidated into Atlaax. These chunks of various planets were smashed together like some crude jigsaw puzzle, with some celestial bodies surviving the transfer. The resulting chaos was, and still is, truly unthinkable:

The civilizations of the primeworlds that survived the initial transfer to Atlaax were not spared. People were teleported into the ground to suffocate, or the sky to plummet, dying horribly. Others were fused together, with their souls being forcibly united before their physical bodies explosively rejected the fusion. Most were victims of the ensuing political panic, either killed by confused armies or caught in the crossfire of divine battles between the gods. Billions perished.

The planet itself endured catastrophic destruction---so much that modern scholars have no vision of what Atlaax may have looked like before the Great Fusion. The land was ravaged by falling space debris, shaken by the grinding of alien tectonics, and magically scarred by battling gods. 

The trauma of this event still hangs over the land, shaping it into a new form of horror and beauty, named the [[The Meridian|Meridian.]]