Long ago, the world was composed of many separate, isolated worlds. Each of these worlds held their own gods, their own technologies, and their own magic. Then, an event known as the [[Great Fusion]] ended this segregation, violently smashing every world together into a new, single planet named [[Atlaaxian System|Atlaax.]] The gods’ battle darkened the skies, and as moons collided and stars fell, the armies of a thousand nations clashed over new unforgiving lands. Thus, the part of the world least ravaged—a band of two continents and six seas—became known as [[The Meridian|the Meridian.]]

Ten thousand years elapsed, divided into [[Timeline of Atlaax|Ages:]] the first ruled by chaos, the second by darkness, the third by gold, the fourth by war, and the fifth and current by peace. In this time, the humanoids of Atlaax were shaped through conflict, and evolved into the many varied cultures across the Meridian's two continents, [[Altinin]] and [[Ryu-ike]]. In the **Age of War**, the world came under threat by a legendary artifact called the **Splitlock,** wielded by **humankind** using rediscovered knowledge from their [[Primeworld|primeworld,]] **[[Earth|Earth.]]** 

The [[The Splitlock|Splitlock]], "the door with a thousand keys," was heralded to hold the power to hold back the stars, to level continents, to summon history, and to shift fate itself. Humanity planned to dominate the land with its power, but before its keys could be gathered, they became engaged in the planet-wide [[Thousand Days' War]]. The nations of the Meridian, united under the [[Pantheon Coalition|Pantheon Coalition,]] mobilized to stop humankind before the god-artifact was activated. A thousand cultures, once divided, banded together for the first and final time to seize the Splitlock and crush the human forces. The Splitlock was sealed by the Pantheon Coalition in an unknown location and the many keys needed in its activation were divided amongst the war's participants across the Meridian.

Almost a thousand years later, those who dream of the Splitlock’s power have been called once more: the echoes of creation resound, granting strange powers to bearers of its **Keys**. The once peaceful land of Altinin, still bleeding from the wounds of the old war, has entered a new era of roiling tension that threatens to devour it once and for all.

**(See [[Splitlock Break Lore Index]])**